So we already have seen how we created or set up our Java servlet for this project and we know the basics
of Java solid how we are going to use this.
So first we created an index or HTML.
As I told you for for the previous things.
And I added some cases file also your.
Known for admin login or administrative login.
I created one page.
Basically I told you in that video, I'm going to create that page.
So I created a login page for our admin login.
In further, we are going to see how we can create participant login page or signup page also.
So in this this page, I'm going to create a login email.
So now we can create entertainment pages in webpages, web page, contents, all the web related or
frontend related part.
So just to go there in that left part, right click on web page new and you can create HTML pages from
here.
So I created I already created this due to time constraint.
I will tell you how I'm going to create this, created this.
So this is admin log in page.
As you all know, you can remove this part.
This is by default, but I'm going to remove this part also.
So this is HTML.
This is head part of our project and everything.
And for this I'm going to put admin log in, page everything and I'm adding the CSS.
So main thing in this is the form basically in what we are going to see is the form.
Basically we are typing username and password in the form in the HTML.
So this is how we can create form form in this post, we are going to post that form.
So here is the action action roles that what is action is going to do is validate ID.
So what is the validity?
The validity is the name which I am going to create one Java servlet four validate that part.
So this name is very important.
So for the validation of admin, I'm going to give its name, form, name as or action as validate id
then this is username.
I'm going to put user's username.
No need to put this username then this so placeholder.
It should be username.
Like you can see the user name placeholder but name again the name.
And this action is very important.
Give the meaningful name for this this parameter.
So this parameter name is a username.
So it is like that, it's validation name.
Or we can say how we can recognize that's part username, part or text by this name a username.
Similarly for the password, this password a password and each type is password.
So we can see that dot dot part in HTML part also.
And that's it about all things.
So I'm just created center and for centralize everything and put it in the single code.
So this is all about our creating a login.
I will reformat this just to ensure this is looking good.
So always remember the name for that parameter should be very significant.
And this action due meaningful names for these things don't give some random names or something like
A, B or C, give the meaningful names.
So as you can see, our partisan, we can say log in, but how we can validate that part.
So I'm considering admin have some or we can give the admins username and password by default.
You need to put in the database and everything.
So for that I'm going to create a Java servlet or we can say Java program so we can create Java program.
All Java programs should inside in source packages folder.
So just right click on source packages below the web packages.
As Web pages, you can see source packages right click new and you can see third option is Java servlet,
click on that.
So when this is done, what I'm going to do is I'm just going to copy this part because the name and
application lowercase is very important.
Validate it.
I'm just copying this and I'm going to create a new servlet here.
So this is so we don't need to specify a package or anything because this is very simple project.
If you want to enhance it more, you can create some inside that source package.
You can create some default packages or some packages.
Also click next here.
These are very important add information to deployment descriptor, which is basically web dot, XML
deployment descriptor.
So to mark this, this is very important and click finish.
Once it is done, it will create some default template in that default packages validity.
As you can see, you can delete this part, comment part then this is this.
Also you can delete it also.
There is there are some default things mentioned here.
So you can delete this also and you can delete this track each and everything.
So this is done now.
So you can see this is validated, bipartisan, and these all things are accepted.
To minimize this, you can just start to not mention this part.
And then again, this is also you can done with Java servlet.
Java servlet, which is basically Java.
I'm inputting dot star.
Who and this is also Ugandan with HTTP servlet.
So what you can do put start here so you can remove this part.
So again.
So I'm going to minimize this on things, important things.
So now you can see we are done with this part, but.
What is there is nothing inside this.
So we are going to write logic here.
So.
Let us write one logic or we can say logical thing here.
So let me just like this.
And.
I think something is missing.
Okay.
You're.
What happened?
And.
Okay.
Okay, okay.
No need.
You can delete this part.
Also, I'm going to delete this part also because it is we are going to create our own method here.
And we have some.
Usually turtles on display.
So that's it.
We already created this part.
So let us begin with how we can create it.
So always remember this public void or we can say servlet class validity should extend HTTP servlet.
It is by default class inside Java.
After that you can create your own method so you can create private or public method.
I'm going to create public method or you can create protected also.
So if you want, you can create private or public.
I'm going to create public method your public.
Void.
Then do post what is due.
Plus, does it fetch the data from that HTML page and it will post something?
So domains for fetching data and posting means some printing some things.
So http servlet.
It is basically class.
Nothing more servlet.
Now, this is very important request.
For this request.
I want request.
So what is doing that for the request purpose?
It is creating some request.
Similarly for HTTP response.
HTP.
So let.
This.
Bonds.
What it will create.
It will ask for response so you can change your variables.
According to that, I'm putting response and request here only for this purpose and what it does.
It's to some exceptions.
What is the basic?
Basically exceptions throws exception.
Are you exception?
So let exception.
So instead of using, always try catch.
I'm going to use this.
So.
It is showing me the error.
Basically.
What is that?
Okay.
It is asking me to create a class and everything.
So no need?
No.
I created one plus.
No need to mention this.
In fact, you can delete this part.
After that, I will tell you how we can invoke this.
Okay.
It will take time to reload everything.
So as you can see, we are now done with this part.
HDB solid and it's loaded.
Now I exception with solid exception.
Or remember you have to put always that close and everything here.
Otherwise it will not work.
So now let's build the logic.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to create some print statement.
So it is basically I0 part of all Java.
I'll print.
Right.
Screenwriter.
I would.
Is equal to.
What I'm going to create.
I'm going to ask for response.
Response Dot get writer.
So.
It will create some print writer segments.
So what it will do in the statement, it will response and put that part in in the further but main
usage of this is very important.
Always remember.
Out means printing that statement.
So it is very important to mention what is meant by out here you can out is just a variable name but
you should use print writer for the response.
You cannot use anything here.
So I'm going to use string UN to fetch username from that a login method.
So what I can do is I'm going to ask for a request request dot get parameter as you know the I mean
I'm needed the parameter method, so I'm going to ask for git parameter.
So this will ask me for the parameter.
But which parameter I want?
I want your username.
So I'm going to copy this in a log.
In a username because I mentioned that the name is this.
So similarly I will put for this.
Which user?
Name.
I like this.
Similarly, I'm going to fetch password.
But for that I'm not going to write again.
This I'm going to just put p w here.
E w.
And I am going to change the name also.
Just you can copy paste this from here.
No need to check and type it again.
Just copy this.
And based.
And I'm going to mention this as.
Which.
Password.
So it will fetch from that.
So let us see.
I'm what I'm going to do.
I'm going to mention the set of some username and password.
So for this case, I'm going to consider only for 8 minutes.
So no.
So now we are done with this part.
So I created a set, a1011024.
You want you to use three you for like you are seeing this.
So these are the for admin with username and password.
So what is logic, basically?
I told you I can use this, P.W..
So what I'm going to create.
I'm going to create a false ladder here.
Let us see how we can create.
I will put here is.
LS.
I did check.
Entries.
20 entries.
So let us see how we can create effects.
So if I'm going to use this p.w.
Dot you know, there is one java method called you can directly use equals as if you know you can directly
use there equal if p.w equals to p one.
Okay.
And then.
BW Or sorry.
UN That's for the user name.
UN Dot equals.
You can see this is coming, you one.
What is going to do is.
It is going to create a request.
DISPATCHER So what is the request?
DISPATCHER It will dispatch that request.
What I can say for that response, it is dispersing, dispatching the request.
This dispatcher.
This is just by default method.
It is my username or I can say for variable.
Request Dot.
The dispatcher.
I'm going to copy this, but I'm not going to print this again because this picture there is going to
dispatch, I need to mention next page as this is called, our password and usernames are correct.
It should follow it to the next page as best practice.
So I'm going to give the name as admin for the next, which is HTML.
So it will respond to that also.
So okay before that request dispatcher I forgot requests.
Dot get.
I of want to get right with this picture we are creating this but where it should be getting so it is
get that request venture.
So there is one important statement here.
This is not what I can say.
Dispatching it is just creating that it should go there.
So using if I created for p to you do same admin even html.
I'm going to forward this similarly for this p w all things I created.
If the credentials are incorrect, we are going to stay on this page.
So output println I'm going to mention here is the beautiful thing in the java servlet you can use HTML
symbols here.
Center H1 one.
I'm going to print this.
Please enter valid and valid username and password for.
Edwin.
So I'm going to print this on each HTML page.
So it is not going to print on our command line or something.
It is going to print on HTML.
So it should be in some HTML syntax here.
So I put this.
Now I'm going to request this.
But what is going this is going to forward but it should stay on the same page for the staying on same
page.
I'm going to include I'm going to use include.
So this is all about we done.
But remember, we are going to use your this sentence but how the Java program will understood that
this is the what I am telling is something text or something is HTML for that purpose I'm going to set
the content for this.
So the content setting is very simple response dot set content.
Content type or capital type.
Remember, these are the some default methods inside Java.
You can put this text.
Slash estimate, it can be text or email.
So wait a minute.
Something is wrong or.
Okay.
We are done with this.
Now we are done with this.
So we are done with this now.
Over now.
I will deploy this and I will tell you how it's going to work.
So as you know, for deployment, as I told you, this is created, but this is our index page.
So let's go to the admin log in page.
As you can see, we created already the admin login.
You can change the format and everything here.
So I'm going to put the username.
So I'm going to put username a1014 the 101.
We know the password.
One, two, three, four.
As you can see, 404 is not fun because we haven't created further.
That part is HTML.
Later on we are going to create that part, everything.
But before that, what I can do, I can put some different password to three four for you.
I'm going to print so you can see.
Please enter valid username and password for admin.
As you can see, our password is different.
Similarly, I am putting a108.
That is not to mention that admin is not mentioned.
I am going to put some random thing here again.
So it is going to validate everything and it's asking please enter a valid username and password for
a username for admin.
So this is how we are going to validate admin page for the participant.
Log in what we are going to create.
We are asking to participants or your guest to first sign up our page so that.